explain spring boot attribute override (#4241)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/languages/java/automatic/spring-boot.md

    - b3
  resource:
    attributes:
      environment: dev
      xyz: foo
      deployment.environment: dev
      service:
        name: cart
        namespace: shop
```

Environment variables example:

```shell
export OTEL_PROPAGATORS="tracecontext,b3"

> export OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="environment=dev,xyz=foo"

Reviewer: It may also be great to have an example with a map value overrriden by an environment variable.

Author: that's exactly what we do here: change `deployment.environment` to `prod`.

#### Overriding Resource Attributes

As usual in Spring Boot, you can override properties in the
`application.properties` and `application.yaml` files with environment
variables.

For example, you can change or add the `deployment.environment` resource
attribute (not changing `service.name` or `service.namespace`) by setting the
standard `OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES` environment variable:

```shell
export OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="deployment.environment=prod"
```

> Alternatively, you can use the Spring Boot style:

Reviewer: I would add explanations to help the reader understand the second configuration way. I would also remove "Spring Boot style" because it may confuse some users.

    - b3
  resource:
    attributes:
      deployment.environment: dev
      service:
        name: cart
        namespace: shop
```

Environment variables example:

```shell
export OTEL_PROPAGATORS="tracecontext,b3"
export OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="deployment.environment=dev,service.name=cart,service.namespace=shop"
```

#### Overriding Resource Attributes

As usual in Spring Boot, you can override properties in the
`application.properties` and `application.yaml` files with environment
variables.

> For example, you can change or add the `deployment.environment` resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can set or override the `deployment.environment` resource
```

attribute (not changing `service.name` or `service.namespace`) by setting the
standard `OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES` environment variable:

```shell
export OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="deployment.environment=prod"
```

> Alternatively, you can use an environment variable to update a single resource

Author: better now?

> Alternatively, you can use an environment variable to update a single resource

Reviewer: Yes, thanks!

> Alternatively, you can use an environment variable to set or override a single

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use the
`OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES_DEPLOYMENT_ENVIRONMENT`
environment variable to set or override a single
```

Author: this is just an example, you could also use `OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES_SERVICE_NAMESPACE`

Reviewer 3: Should that be the one we recommend?

Author: I think so, because it supports SpEL

Reviewer 4: can this conversation be resolved to merge this PR?
